README.md, before:

<h1 allign="center" id="title"> Kenya-Rae Francis </h1>
<img src="/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/favicon-32x32.png" alt="Image of first Initial">

[Live Project can be viewed here.](https://kenya-rae.github.io/Kenya-s-Portfolio/)

This is a website for my personal portfolio. It is designed to be accessible aswell as responve on a range of small to large devices. Kenya-Rae Franics is a website that is aiming to allure potential recruiters and other individuals whom have the same interest and would like to network.

## Table of Contents

### User Experience (UX)

- Project Goals
- User Goals
- Developer Goals
- User Stories
- Design Choices
- Wireframes

### Features
### Testing
- Bugs
### Deployment
### Credits

- Content
- Media
- Code
- Acknowledgments

## User Experience (UX)

### Project Goals

The primary goal of this protfolio Project is to showcase myself to potential recruiters that are looking to hire. This project has two target audiences: Recruiters and anyone who is interested in common interest.

#### Recruiters Goals

The main audience for this site is recruiters.

#### Recruiters Goals:

- Consider hiring applicant(s).
- Look for qualified applicant(s).
- Improve the quality of hires.
- Enhancing employer brand.

#### Developers goals:
- Showcase myself in the best light to recruiters.
- To get hired.
- Create an simple and effective website.

#### User Stories

As a recruiter I want:

- The ability to easily navigate the site (portfolio).
- Be able to see experience and skills demonstrated.
- Access to CV.
- Able to contact you. 

As the site owner I want:

- To get hired.
- Find others of similar interest.
- Collaborate with others.

## Design Choices

The overall feel of this site is to be minimalistic and professional. The design choices below were planned with this in mind.

### Fonts

- The primary font *Roboto* was choosen due to how concise the letters are. This font will be used within the text content of the site.
- The secondary font *Cormorant Garamond* was choosen for its simple and modern letters. Which will be used within the headers.

### Icons 

- All icons used as they are easily recognised and understood by everyone.

### Colours

- I used a dark background to light navagation/footer, as the contrast and the feel of the page looks more formal. I chose to use light text and colorful elements to brighten pages up through out the website to ensure the website doesn't look flat all the way through. 

### Images
Images of favicon can be found here:
- [Favicon.ico](/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/favicon.ico)
- [Android-chrome-192x192](/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/android-chrome-192x192.png)
- [Android-chrome-512x512](/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/android-chrome-512x512.png)
- [Apple=touch-icon](/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/apple-touch-icon.png)
- [Favicon-16x16](/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/favicon-16x16.png)
- [Favicon-32x32](/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/favicon-32x32.png)

Photos used within the portfolio page can be found here:
- [Raspberry Plant](assets/images/img_5367.jpg)
- [Strawberrt Plant](assets/images/img_5391.jpg)
- [Blueberry Plant](assets/images/img_5934.jpg)
- [Apple Tree](assets/images/img_5943.jpg)
- [Scotch Bonnet Plant](assets/images/img_6150.jpg)
- [Harvested Pototos](assets/images/img_6216.jpg)
- [Apple Tree Blossom](assets/images/img_7974.jpg)

### Video Files

Links to find the video files that have been added.
- [Fortnite](assets/videos/Fortnite%20Clip.mp4)
- [Warzone](assets/videos/Warzone%20clip_.mp4)

### Wireframes

- The wireframe was created using [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/).
- The wireframe for the Home page can be found with this link - [Home](assets/images/Home%20Page.png)
- The wireframe for the About Me page can be found with this link - [About](assets/images/About.png)
- The wireframe for the CV page can be found with this link - [CV](assets/images/CV.png)
- The wireframe for the Portfolio page can be found with this link - [Portfolio](assets/images/Portfolio.png)
- The wireframe for the Viewport examples can be found with this link - [Media](assets/images/Media.png)

## Features

- Fully functional navigation and footer, no collapse element was used as this made some smaller devices look empty.
- Favicon was created and used to personalise the site, this is a simple icon that can be recognised.
- Responsive on all screen sizes. 
- Easy naviagation, intuitivity using easily identified icons.
- Simple introduction within the home page.
- About me page contains brief information regarding myself (site owner). An accordion was choosen to display this information on smaller devices as this makes the site less busy and more neat. Users can interact with the accordion allowing them to read a section at a time instead of all the information showing at once. As screen size increases accordion is no longer displayed and all information is provided on the screen without any interaction features.
- The CV page provides a breakdown of my working cv and my email. Where users can gain quick information about my working history or to contact me directly. A downloadable link of my CV is provided within the navbar for easy and quick access.
- The portfolio page showcases my personal hobbies gardening, gaming and my web development projects. Users can interact with two videos that highlights recent edits and have the option to control them. As well as an carousel that displays photos of my gardening hobby.
- Footer is responsive and provides links to social medias.

### Accessibiilty
- Ensuring that design/layout was not complex but was consistent and easy to naviagate.
- Descriptive alt tags for each item.
- Using aria labels when needed.
- Used semantic HTML to define meaning of the content.

## Testing

## Bugs

- When viewing on a mobile device with 320 x 480 resolution, text boxes overlapped and dragged down the page. I made a change to the max height of the body and made changes to each indivdual component and adjusted accordingly to resolutions.
- Fatal error when pushing my commits to my repository. Due to file sizing, I had to resize/compress my files in to smaller files to fit the capcity of GitHub.
- Carousel images where taking up a lot of space within the larger screen views. As well as this, changing the size made the postioning of the photo allign to the left. Leaving a big amount of space on the right. Removing .w-100 from the class element allowed me to size the images according to screen size. Using media-queries. 
- Footer wasnt staying in postion and content meet with the footer once placed at the bottom. I had used sticky element and some styling to position my footer correctly. I provided some elements with a margin bottom to push up the content away from the footer.
- Styling for media queries that where 1440px and up, I was unable position my divs horizontally. I had used margin-left to move and position them to where I need. Though this may not be beneficial for xxx-large screens as this may change the postioning on different screens.
## Deployments
This project was deployed to GitHub Pages using the steps below;

1. Search GitHub and log in.
2. Locate and select the repository that you want to deploy.
3. Once respository is open, select settings.
4. Select 'Pages', which is found on the left hand side under Code and Automation category.
5. Undereath build and deployment, there is two sub-heading 'Source' and 'Branch'. Select the 'None' dropdown below the branch sub-heading.
6. Change the 'None' option to 'Main', then press save
7. Wait a few moments whilst the pages refreshes. (This could take up to 5 minutes.)
8. You may need to refresh the page, to see the saved changes. You should have see that thr site and the link to the live site. An orange icon will display which will indicate that the save changes are still loading.
9. You can also check your deployment by selecting 'Code'. On the right hand side you should see 'Deployments'. Select 'Deployments' to view the status of your deployments.

## Credits

### Frameworks, Libraries and Programes Used
- To create wireframes [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/).
- Local IDE that was used to write code and to push files and repository to GitHub [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/).
- To store files and respository [Github](https://github.com/).
- For that structure and components such as accordion, carousel. [https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/getting-started/introduction/](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/getting-started/introduction/),
- Google Dev Tools. Functionality that is built in with the Chrome browser. This was used to test designs and troubleshoot as I went along creating the website.
- Icons from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/).
- Font sourced from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/).
- Accordion template from [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/components/collapse/).
- Coolors was used to select colours for elements and some text within the about, cv and portofolio page. [Coolors](https://coolors.co/).
- Favicon was used to create an icon [Favicon](https://favicon.io/favicon-generator/).
- To ensure I was adding the Favicon correctly [W3schools] (https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_favicon.asp).
- To compress video files [Veed](https://www.veed.io/tools/video-compressor).
- To compress images [Imageresizer](https://imageresizer.com/).
- To optimize images for the web [Tinypng](https://tinypng.com/).
- Validation of CSS was done by [Jigsaw](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/).
- Validation of HTML was done by [Validator](https://validator.w3.org/).
- CSS Minimiser [Toptal](https://www.toptal.com/developers/cssminifier).
### Media

All media sourced and provided where all uploaded from my personal device, using the media I have captured and created.

### Code
- Code for the footer positioning sourced from [nehalahmadkhan](https://dev.to/nehalahmadkhan/how-to-make-footer-stick-to-bottom-of-web-page-3i14).
- Basic code for fade in transition and modified to what I wanted.[hubspot](https://blog.hubspot.com/website/css-fade-in#text-transition).
- Accordion template code [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/components/collapse/).
- Carousel template code [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/components/carousel/).

### Acknowledgments
Thank you to everyone for all the suggestion and advice provided.

- [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/) providing me the chance to learn and put what I have learnt in to practice
-[Martina Terlevic](https://github.com/SephTheOverwitch) For the reassurance and advice through the project.
- [Ant2210 Raw README.md](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ant2210/project1/main/README.md) used to prompt ideas and thought for my own README.md.
- [Developer.Mozilla](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_media_queries/Using_media_queries) was used when researching about making media query.
- [Display Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/utilities/display/) was used to research how to hide properties used from Bootstrap.
- [.w3schools] (https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_box-sizing.asp#:~:text=With%20the%20CSS%20box%2Dsizing,Hooray!) was used to get an understand of what the box-sizing property does.
- [Kevin Powell] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nv0weHy7t0) helped me find ways to tackle overflow of text and great to refresh your mind on things I have previously learnt.
- [IoanZahria] (https://code-institute-room.slack.com/archives/CP07TN38Q/p1715337626643139?thread_ts=1715335321.886689&cid=CP07TN38Q). Helping me resolve the issue with my file sizes as this was causing a gitpush error.
- [Bootstrapstudio](https://forum.bootstrapstudio.io/t/how-do-you-decrease-carousel-size/5109/2) A forum post that related to a similar issue I was having. A response from Saj pointed me in the right direction on how to override the carousel image size on desktop.
- [Joshwcomeau](https://www.joshwcomeau.com/css/center-a-div/). Explained center a div using margin auto. This showed me a new property called margin-inline.
- [Rocketvalidator](https://rocketvalidator.com/) Was used to understand errors within validators.

[Back to top](#title)

Commit message:

Finished testing section withing README.md and added comments to css

README.md, after:

<h1 allign="center" id="title"> Kenya-Rae Francis </h1>
<img src="/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/favicon-32x32.png" alt="Image of first Initial">

[Live Project can be viewed here.](https://kenya-rae.github.io/Kenya-s-Portfolio/)

This is a website for my personal portfolio. It is designed to be accessible aswell as responve on a range of small to large devices. Kenya-Rae Franics is a website that is aiming to allure potential recruiters and other individuals whom have the same interest and would like to network.

## Table of Contents

### User Experience (UX)

- Project Goals
- User Goals
- Developer Goals
- User Stories
- Design Choices
- Wireframes

### Features
### Testing
- Bugs
### Deployment
### Credits

- Content
- Media
- Code
- Acknowledgments

## User Experience (UX)

### Project Goals

The primary goal of this protfolio Project is to showcase myself to potential recruiters that are looking to hire. This project has two target audiences: Recruiters and anyone who is interested in common interest.

#### Recruiters Goals

The main audience for this site is recruiters.

#### Recruiters Goals:

- Consider hiring applicant(s).
- Look for qualified applicant(s).
- Improve the quality of hires.
- Enhancing employer brand.

#### Developers goals:
- Showcase myself in the best light to recruiters.
- To get hired.
- Create an simple and effective website.

#### User Stories

As a recruiter I want:

- The ability to easily navigate the site (portfolio).
- Be able to see experience and skills demonstrated.
- Access to CV.
- Able to contact you. 

As the site owner I want:

- To get hired.
- Find others of similar interest.
- Collaborate with others.

## Design Choices

The overall feel of this site is to be minimalistic and professional. The design choices below were planned with this in mind.

### Fonts

- The primary font *Roboto* was choosen due to how concise the letters are. This font will be used within the text content of the site.
- The secondary font *Cormorant Garamond* was choosen for its simple and modern letters. Which will be used within the headers.

### Icons 

- All icons used as they are easily recognised and understood by everyone.

### Colours

- I used a dark background to light navagation/footer, as the contrast and the feel of the page looks more formal. I chose to use light text and colorful elements to brighten pages up through out the website to ensure the website doesn't look flat all the way through. 

### Images
Images of favicon can be found here:
- [Favicon.ico](/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/favicon.ico)
- [Android-chrome-192x192](/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/android-chrome-192x192.png)
- [Android-chrome-512x512](/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/android-chrome-512x512.png)
- [Apple=touch-icon](/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/apple-touch-icon.png)
- [Favicon-16x16](/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/favicon-16x16.png)
- [Favicon-32x32](/workspace/Kenya-s-Portfolio/favicon-32x32.png)

Photos used within the portfolio page can be found here:
- [Raspberry Plant](assets/images/img_5367.jpg)
- [Strawberrt Plant](assets/images/img_5391.jpg)
- [Blueberry Plant](assets/images/img_5934.jpg)
- [Apple Tree](assets/images/img_5943.jpg)
- [Scotch Bonnet Plant](assets/images/img_6150.jpg)
- [Harvested Pototos](assets/images/img_6216.jpg)
- [Apple Tree Blossom](assets/images/img_7974.jpg)

### Video Files

Links to find the video files that have been added.
- [Fortnite](assets/videos/Fortnite%20Clip.mp4)
- [Warzone](assets/videos/Warzone%20clip_.mp4)

### Wireframes

- The wireframe was created using [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/).
- The wireframe for the Home page can be found with this link - [Home](assets/images/Home%20Page.png)
- The wireframe for the About Me page can be found with this link - [About](assets/images/About.png)
- The wireframe for the CV page can be found with this link - [CV](assets/images/CV.png)
- The wireframe for the Portfolio page can be found with this link - [Portfolio](assets/images/Portfolio.png)
- The wireframe for the Viewport examples can be found with this link - [Media](assets/images/Media.png)

## Features

- Fully functional navigation and footer, no collapse element was used as this made some smaller devices look empty.
- Favicon was created and used to personalise the site, this is a simple icon that can be recognised.
- Responsive on all screen sizes. 
- Easy naviagation, intuitivity using easily identified icons.
- Simple introduction within the home page.
- About me page contains brief information regarding myself (site owner). An accordion was choosen to display this information on smaller devices as this makes the site less busy and more neat. Users can interact with the accordion allowing them to read a section at a time instead of all the information showing at once. As screen size increases accordion is no longer displayed and all information is provided on the screen without any interaction features.
- The CV page provides a breakdown of my working cv and my email. Where users can gain quick information about my working history or to contact me directly. A downloadable link of my CV is provided within the navbar for easy and quick access.
- The portfolio page showcases my personal hobbies gardening, gaming and my web development projects. Users can interact with two videos that highlights recent edits and have the option to control them. As well as an carousel that displays photos of my gardening hobby.
- Footer is responsive and provides links to social medias.

### Accessibiilty
- Ensuring that design/layout was not complex but was consistent and easy to naviagate.
- Descriptive alt tags for each item.
- Using aria labels when needed.
- Used semantic HTML to define meaning of the content.

## Testing
Live site has been tested on various devices and browsers and done by myself, friends and family.

The devices and browers used to test;
- Iphone 13 Pro Max
- Iphone 13
- Iphone 11
- Iphone 6
- Samsung S12
- Ipad 10th Gen
- MacBook
- Desktop - Opera GX
- HP Pavillion Gaming Laptop 17


- Upon testing, it was reccommend that my personal statement on the cv page was not visible on mobile but bigger devices displayed this. This was due to a bootstrap utility class that I have added to the personal statement paragraph. This has now been removed and postioned correctly for all devices. 
- Cv PDF was not working correctly with Dev Tools. Though when tested on the live site on different devices, PDF is downloadable and works as it should.
- When viewing on MacBook, cv page content is not centered well if browser is not full screen.
- It was noticed that a brightness bar displays immediately within the cv page on the Samsung S12. Two options displayed with "Apply" and "Cancel", this also displays a bar above the CV section. When accepted, this has seemed to dimmed the colour of the writing or increased the boldness.  

## Bugs

- When viewing on a mobile device with 320 x 480 resolution, text boxes overlapped and dragged down the page. I made a change to the max height of the body and made changes to each indivdual component and adjusted accordingly to resolutions.
- Fatal error when pushing my commits to my repository. Due to file sizing, I had to resize/compress my files in to smaller files to fit the capcity of GitHub.
- Carousel images where taking up a lot of space within the larger screen views. As well as this, changing the size made the postioning of the photo allign to the left. Leaving a big amount of space on the right. Removing .w-100 from the class element allowed me to size the images according to screen size. Using media-queries. 
- Footer wasnt staying in postion and content meet with the footer once placed at the bottom. I had used sticky element and some styling to position my footer correctly. I provided some elements with a margin bottom to push up the content away from the footer.
- Styling for media queries that where 1440px and up, I was unable position my divs horizontally for pages such as the CV page. I had used margin-left to move and position them to where I need. Though this may not be beneficial for xxx-large screens as this may change the postioning on different screens.
## Deployments
This project was deployed to GitHub Pages using the steps below;

1. Search GitHub and log in.
2. Locate and select the repository that you want to deploy.
3. Once respository is open, select settings.
4. Select 'Pages', which is found on the left hand side under Code and Automation category.
5. Undereath build and deployment, there is two sub-heading 'Source' and 'Branch'. Select the 'None' dropdown below the branch sub-heading.
6. Change the 'None' option to 'Main', then press save
7. Wait a few moments whilst the pages refreshes. (This could take up to 5 minutes.)
8. You may need to refresh the page, to see the saved changes. You should have see that thr site and the link to the live site. An orange icon will display which will indicate that the save changes are still loading.
9. You can also check your deployment by selecting 'Code'. On the right hand side you should see 'Deployments'. Select 'Deployments' to view the status of your deployments.

## Credits

### Frameworks, Libraries and Programes Used
- To create wireframes [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/).
- Local IDE that was used to write code and to push files and repository to GitHub [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/).
- To store files and respository [Github](https://github.com/).
- For that structure and components such as accordion, carousel. [https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/getting-started/introduction/](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/getting-started/introduction/),
- Google Dev Tools. Functionality that is built in with the Chrome browser. This was used to test designs and troubleshoot as I went along creating the website.
- Icons from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/).
- Font sourced from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/).
- Accordion template from [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/components/collapse/).
- Coolors was used to select colours for elements and some text within the about, cv and portofolio page. [Coolors](https://coolors.co/).
- Favicon was used to create an icon [Favicon](https://favicon.io/favicon-generator/).
- To ensure I was adding the Favicon correctly [W3schools] (https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_favicon.asp).
- To compress video files [Veed](https://www.veed.io/tools/video-compressor).
- To compress images [Imageresizer](https://imageresizer.com/).
- To optimize images for the web [Tinypng](https://tinypng.com/).
- Validation of CSS was done by [Jigsaw](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/).
- Validation of HTML was done by [Validator](https://validator.w3.org/).
- CSS Minimiser [Toptal](https://www.toptal.com/developers/cssminifier).
### Media

All media sourced and provided where all uploaded from my personal device, using the media I have captured and created.

### Code
- Code for the footer positioning sourced from [nehalahmadkhan](https://dev.to/nehalahmadkhan/how-to-make-footer-stick-to-bottom-of-web-page-3i14).
- Basic code for fade in transition and modified to what I wanted.[hubspot](https://blog.hubspot.com/website/css-fade-in#text-transition).
- Accordion template code [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/components/collapse/).
- Carousel template code [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/components/carousel/).

### Acknowledgments
Thank you to everyone for all the suggestion and advice provided.

- [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/) providing me the chance to learn and put what I have learnt in to practice
-[Martina Terlevic](https://github.com/SephTheOverwitch) For the reassurance and advice through the project.
- [Ant2210 Raw README.md](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ant2210/project1/main/README.md) used to prompt ideas and thought for my own README.md.
- [Developer.Mozilla](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_media_queries/Using_media_queries) was used when researching about making media query.
- [Display Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/utilities/display/) was used to research how to hide properties used from Bootstrap.
- [.w3schools] (https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_box-sizing.asp#:~:text=With%20the%20CSS%20box%2Dsizing,Hooray!) was used to get an understand of what the box-sizing property does.
- [Kevin Powell] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nv0weHy7t0) helped me find ways to tackle overflow of text and great to refresh your mind on things I have previously learnt.
- [IoanZahria] (https://code-institute-room.slack.com/archives/CP07TN38Q/p1715337626643139?thread_ts=1715335321.886689&cid=CP07TN38Q). Helping me resolve the issue with my file sizes as this was causing a gitpush error.
- [Bootstrapstudio](https://forum.bootstrapstudio.io/t/how-do-you-decrease-carousel-size/5109/2) A forum post that related to a similar issue I was having. A response from Saj pointed me in the right direction on how to override the carousel image size on desktop.
- [Joshwcomeau](https://www.joshwcomeau.com/css/center-a-div/). Explained center a div using margin auto. This showed me a new property called margin-inline.
- [Rocketvalidator](https://rocketvalidator.com/) Was used to understand errors within validators.

[Back to top](#title)
